Project_Index	Project Title	Short Name	Studio	Participants	Type	No_of_Photos	No_of_Videos	Video_Load	Tags	Full Description	Date0	3D Visualization for Center for the Arts at Virginia Tech	Center for the Arts	Image	"Dane Webster, Chris Russell, Mallory Brangan"	3D Visualization	0	1	1	"Multidisciplinary project, real-world applications, 3D visualization, studio art, biochemistry"	"For Dane Webster, an associate professor of animation and 3D modeling and area coordinator of creative technologies in the College of Architecture and Urban Studies School of Visual Arts, one of the most important parts of his job is cultivating students passion for art and technology and providing them with the opportunities to explore their creative ideas. Webster encourages students to pursue their interests by working on large, collaborative, often multidisciplinary projects with real-world applications, including the creation of a 3D visualization for the new Center for the Arts at Virginia Tech.With help from two of his students (Chris Russell of Atlanta, Ga., a senior majoring in studio art, and Mallory Brangan of Norfolk, Va., a senior majoring in biochemistry and studio art) Dane Webster used models and single-frame renderings from architecture firms Snohetta and STV to create a virtual fly through of the center. Fly throughs are animated videos that allow users to virtually move through a structure, getting a close-up view of a building."	None Listed1	A Crowd Modeling Framework for Socially Plausible Animation Behaviors	Crowd Modeling	Image	"Yong Cao, Chao Peng"	3D Simulation	0	1	0	"Crowd modeling, animated behaviors,human interaction, animation"	"We present a framework for crowd modeling that produces socially plausible animation behaviors. Our high-level behavioral model is able to produce appropriate animated behavior that includes synchronized body-orientation and gesture of individual actors within the simulation. Because the model operationalizes a well-founded social-linguistic Common Ground (CG) theory of human interaction, the behavior chains form meaningful interactions among the actors. The model includes micro-behaviors relating to CG theory, and macro-behavior relating to the animation context. This allows reuse of the micro-behaviors as animation contexts change and flexible adaptation to different animation contexts."	None Listed2	A GPU-based Approach for Massive Model Rendering with Frame-to-Frame Coherence	GPU - Massive Models 	Image	"Yong Cao, Chao Peng"	Rendered 3D Models	0	1	0	"Massive rendering, GPU"	"Rendering massive 3D models in real-time has long been recognized as a very challenging problem because of the limited computational power and memory space available in a workstation. Most existing rendering techniques, especially level of detail (LOD) processing, have suffered from their sequential execution natures. We present a GPU-based approach which enables the interactive rendering of large 3D models with hundreds of millions of triangles. Our work contributes to the massive rendering research in two ways. First, we propose a GPU-based streaming approach which adopt a frame-to-frame coherence scheme in order to minimize the high communication cost between CPU and GPU. Second, we present a simple and effcient mesh simplification algorithm towards GPU architecture. Our results show that GPU-based streaming approach and the parallel mesh simplification algorithm significantly improve the overall rendering performance."	None Listed3	A Motion Graph Approach for Interactive 3D Animation using Low-cost Sensors	Motion Graph	Image	"Yong Cao, Student"	Sensor Motion Graphic	0	1	1	"3D animation, interactive, motion graph"	"Interactive 3D animation of human figures is very common in video games, animation studios and virtual environments. However, it is difficult to produce full body animation that looks realistic enough to be comparable to studio quality human motion data. The commercial motion capture systems are expensive and not suitable for capture in everyday environments. Real-time requirements tend to reduce quality of animation. We present a motion graph based framework to produce high quality motion sequences in real-time using a set of inertial sensor based controllers. The user's action generates signals from the controllers that provide constraints to select appropriate sequence of motions from a structured database of human motions, namely motion graph. Our local search algorithm utilizes noise prone and rapidly varying input sensor signals for querying a large database in real-time. The ability to waive the controllers for producing high quality animation provides a simple 3D user interface that is intuitive to use. The proposed framework is low cost and easy to setup."	None Listed4	A Real-time system of Crowd Rendering: Parallel LOD and Texture Preserving Approach on GPU	Real-time Crowd Rendering	Image	"Yong Cao, Chao Peng"	3D real-time crowd rendering system	0	1	0	"Real-time crowd rendering system, texture appearance"	"In modern games, rendering a massive scene with a large number of animated character is imminent and a very challenging task. We present a real-time crowd rendering system on GPUs with a special focus on how to preserve texture appearance in progressive LOD-based mesh simplification algorithms. Our results show that the proposed parallel LOD approach can get up to 5.33 times of speedup compared with the standard pseudo-instancing approach."	None Listed5	Cardboard Challenge	Cardboard Challenge	Idea	"Phyllis Newbill, Liesl Baum, Mason Walker, Ben Knapp, Sam Leary, Ico Bukvic, Sam Blanchard, Evelien Schilder, Clara Hintermeister, Luke Demarest, Colin Ruhbright, and Jason Forsyth"	Workshop	100	1		"engineering, design education"	"The Global Cardboard Challenge is an opportunity for kids and their parents to build cardboard arcade games, and is inspired by Caine’s Arcade.  Using cardboard and junk, kids built elaborate games with pulleys, pin setters, ramps, and projectiles.   At the end of the build period, the public was invited to play the games.    "	Fall 20126	Building Home Project	Building Home	Interact	"Department of Theatre & Cinema at Virginia Tech, New River Valley Planning District Commission (NRVPDC)"	Participatory theatre and music project	0	0	0	"Theater, music, New River Valley"	"Participatory theatre and music project that links the Department of Theatre & Cinema at Virginia Tech with the New River Valley Planning District Commission (NRVPDC) and its 3-year regional planning process, The Livability Initiative. To help gather qualitative data on community membersÕ thoughts and feelings about life in the region, and integrate these into the NRVPDCÕs planning process."	None Listed7	Drummer Game	Drummer Game	Image	"Dane Webster, Yong Cao, Ico Bukvic, Franics Quek, Steve Harrison"	Video Game	0	1	1	Gaming	The project is funded by the National Science Foundation. Drummer Game investigates the possibilities of using Chinese drums as game controllers as players position an army of terra cotta warriors for battle.	None Listed8	Christiansburg Institute Oral History Project	Oral History - Christiansburg	Interact	"Students in two of Dr. David Cline's Oral History Classes, Christiansburg Institute, Inc., Christiansburg Institute Alumni Association"	Oral history interviews	0	0	0	"Oral History, alumni, interviews"	"During the Fall 2012 semester students in two of Dr. David Cline's (History Dept.) Oral History classes will be working in conjunction with the Christiansburg Institute, Inc. and the Christiansburg Institute Alumni Association to record oral history interviews with alumni and other individuals associated with Christiansburg Institute."	Fall 20129	Community calendar syndication hubs	Community Calendar	Interact	None Listed	Web-based community information management	0	0	0	"Web, community, information management, hubs"	"A breakthrough technology in web-based community information management: Deploying a Microsoft infrastructure to supportattention hubsÊcurated by regional arts councils, theatre and cinema groups, technology councils, newspapers, hyperlocal blogs, chambers of commerce, history museums, sports councils, universities."	None Listed10	Contemplative Practices in Technological Society Conference	Contemplative Practices	Impact	"Keynote Speakers: Congressman Tim Ryan; Rich Fernandez, Google; Trungram Gyaltrul Rinpoche; Linda Lantieri, Inner Resilience; Ali and Atman Smith, Andres Gonzalez, Holistic Life Foundation; Michael Carroll, Author; Rick Bowles, Merck & Co., Inc. (retired); Mark McNamee, Provost, Virginia Tech"	Conference	0	0	0	"Technology, Evolving, Connections"	"Along with the marvels of the 21st century come hurry, distraction, and distress and a compelling question: How can we reconnect with our own humanity in the midst of a rapidly evolving technological society? To answer this question, Virginia Tech is organizing the conference, Contemplative Practices for a Technological Society. This conference is the first of a series of regional conferences designed to lay the foundation for growing supportive networks of contemplative practice in and between education, research, business, and community programs through synergistic interactions. Keynote Speakers: Congressman Tim Ryan; Rich Fernandez, Google; Trungram Gyaltrul Rinpoche; Linda Lantieri, Inner Resilience; Ali and Atman Smith, Andres Gonzalez, Holistic Life Foundation; Michael Carroll, Author; Rick Bowles, Merck & Co., Inc. (retired); Mark McNamee, Provost, Virginia Tech"	"April 11-13, 2013"11	Design Thinking in Middle School	Design Thinking	Idea	"Teri Finn, Liesl Baum, Phyllis Leary Newbill"	Transdisciplinary learning environment	0	0	0	"Design, transdisciplinary learning environment"	"IDEAStudio team members collaborate with a pair of local middle school teachers to implement a design-based, transdisciplinary learning environment for 8th grade students."	None Listed12	Dynamic Analysis of Large Datasets with Animated and Correlated Views	Big Data Analysis	Image	Yong Cao	Visual Analytics Tool	0	1	0	"Visual analyics tool, automatic animation, disjunctive data filters, and time-synced visualization of multiple datasets"	"We introduce a GPU-accelerated visual analytics tool, {\em AVIST}. By adopting the in-situ visualization architecture on the GPUs, AVIST supports real-time data analysis and visualization of massive scale datasets, such as VAST 2012 Challenge dataset. The design objective of the tool is to identify temporal patterns from large and complex data. To achieve this goal, we introduce three unique features: automatic animation, disjunctive data filters, and time-synced visualization of multiple datasets. This tool has received the VAST 2012 Mini Challenge Award: ""Honorable Mention for Good Use of Coordinated Displays""."	None Listed13	Expressive Speech-Driven Facial Animation	Speech Driven Animation	Image	Yong Cao	Animation	0	1	0	"Motion synthesis, speech, facial, modeling"	"Speech-driven facial motion synthesis is a well explored research topic. However, little has been done to model expressive visual behavior during speech. We address this issue using a machine learning approach that relies on a database of speech related high-fidelity facial motions. From this training set, we derive a generative model of expressive facial motion that incorporates emotion control while maintaining accurate lip-synching. The emotional content of the input speech can be manually specified by the user or automatically extracted from the audio signal using a Support Vector Machine classifier."	None Listed14	ICAT works with area students to create museum exhibitions	Museum Exhibitions	Idea	"Teri Finn, Liesl Baum, Phyllis Leary Newbill"	Assistance	1	0	0	"Museum experience, science, technology, engineering, math (STEM)"	"The Institute for Creativity, Arts, and Technology at Virginia Tech is working with Roanoke County middle school students to create engaging museum experiences that showcase ideas to improve their communities and also integrate ideas from the science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) disciplines. The work will be on display at the Science Museum of Western Virginia on February 9 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. The Institute for Creativity, Arts, and TechnologyÕs IDEA Studio assisted with the progress of the projects. Researchers from the studio teamed up with teachers to work closely with approximately 50 Glenvar Middle School students, who were encouraged to identify problems within their community, explore potential solutions, and design meaningful ways to share this work with a public audience, crafting a compelling user experience. LINK**"	2-Feb-1315	IDEAStudio collaborates with middle school teachers to explore STEM concepts in a design-based	STEM and Desgin	Idea	"Teri Finn, Liesl Baum, Phyllis Leary Newbill"	Design-based curriculum	1	1	0	"Design, curriculum, exhibit"	"Beginning in the fall of 2012, some eighth grade students at a local middle school will be studying their subject matter in an altogether different way every Friday. Two eighth grade teachers spent the summer working with IDEAStudio team members to plan a design-based curriculum that emphasizes the important connections among disciplines. The studentsÕ objective will be to design an exhibit for the Science Museum of Western Virginia that demonstrates how to make their world a better place."	Fall 201216	IDEAStudio explores the world of mobile devices in education through the GAMES project and he Learning Transformation Research Group.	GAMES Project	Idea	"Michael Evans, Osmon Balci, Mido Chang, Kirby Deater-Deckard, Michael Evans, Anderson Norton, Serdar Aslan, Steven Boyce, Kyle Cheney, Nan Chen, Sunha Kim, Zhe Wang, Shereen El-Mallah, Emily McClelland, Chantie Nguyen, Andrew Nicholas"	Video Game	1	0	0	"Mobile technology, development, gaming, mathematics, psychology, computer science, and educational research"	"The GAMES Project is a three-year, NSF-funded program addressing the need to develop transformative learning experiences that leverage video games and mobile technologies. The focus is to target the learning of pre-algebraic fraction concepts in middle school students by examining links between motivation, engagement, and fraction proficiency. Michael A. Evans, an ICAT affiliate faculty member in Learning Sciences and Technology, is teamed with faculty and students from mathematics, psychology, computer science, and educational research to design and build a suite of games for use on mobile devices. The LTRG is currently working with schools in Montgomery County, Floyd County, and Danville City. Faculty investigators on this project include Osman Balci; Computer Science, Mido Chang; Educational Research and Evaluation, Kirby Deater-Deckard; Psychology, and Anderson Norton; Mathematics. You can learn more about the LTRG and the GAMES project at http://ltrg.centers.vt.edu."	Current17	IDEAStudio launches special study course: Bridging the Arts	Bridging the Arts	Idea	"Teri Finn, Liesl Baum, Phyllis Leary Newbill"	Transdisciplinary Course	0	0	0	"Industrial design, computer science, instructional design, educational psychology"	"In the fall semester of 2011, IDEAStudio team members implemented a transdisciplinary course that brought together students from industrial design, computer science, instructional design, and educational psychology. This diverse group collaborated to design educational products at the intersection of the arts, science, education, and creative technologies."	Fall 201018	Jo Carson Project	Jo Carson Project	Interact	community members in the NRV and others who knew Jo Carson	Theater piece	0	0	0	"Theater, Jo Carson, stories, plays, poems, essays, short story collections"	"Creating a newly devised theatre piece that explores and honors the writings and theories of playwright, storyteller, activist and healer Jo Carson (1946-2011). The text is a tapestry of stories, some taken from the plays, poems, essays and short story collections of Jo Carson best remembered for her work as the collector and dramatist of over 30 community oral histories throughout Appalachia, the Deep South and the Midwest.ÊSome stories were found in research for this project, which includes interviews with community members here in the NRV and beyond, who knew Jo Carson and/or her work."	None Listed19	Jointly sponsored residency in digital storytelling and community narratives	Digital Storytelling	Interact	"Thenmozhi Soundararajan, Office of Learning Technologies and Institute for Policy and Governance (VTIPG)"	Community	0	0	0	"Digital storytelling, community narratives,residency"	"Jointly sponsored residency in digital storytelling and community narrativesÊby Thenmozhi Soundararajan, noted transmedia artist, theorist and musician to include community workshops, lectures, research roundtable, and a chapter for a book under development on the role of arts and culture in community change. Interact Studio is collaborating with the university's Office of Learning Technologies and Institute for Policy and Governance (VTIPG) to host the residency."	None Listed20	K2C	K2C	Idea	"Liesl Baum, Phyllis Leary Newbill, Teri Finn"	Workshop	0	0	0	Workshop	Virginia Tech graduate students lead hands-on workshop for visiting 5th graders through Virginia Career ViewÕs Kindergarten to College program.	None Listed21	Load Balancing for Massive Model Rendering using Multiple GPUs	Massive Model Rendering	Image	"Yong Cao, Chao Peng"	Rendered 3D Models	0	1	0	"3D model, interaction, visualization"	"Rendering massive 3D models at high frame rates has been recognized as a challenging task. In this work, we present a device-independent parallel algorithm to achieve high-performance rendering on a multi-GPU system. To optimize the GPU usage, our algorithm seamlessly integrates with parallel LOD and CPU-GPU data streaming approaches, and solves the load-balancing issues across GPU devices. As a result, we demonstrate the ability to interactively visualize the 3D model composed of hundreds of millions of polygon primitives on a tiled display panel."	None Listed22	Locative Audio	Locative Audio	Impact	Ico Bukvic	Software (Unique tools that enable sound artists to apply locative audio and media technoogies to creative thinking and to take the results to our streets and own pockets as an extension and reinvention of the concert hall.)	0	0	0	"Sonic ideas, specific geolocation, mobile technologies"	"Location-based Media, an umbrella for Locative Audio, brings to composers the idea of customising and associating sonic ideas to a specific geolocation. Mobile technologies, such as the GPS smartphones employed for Locativeaudio.org project and custom made software provide the core tools for its realisation."	201223	Make-to-Learn Workshop	Make-to-Learn	Idea	"Phyllis Newbill, Liesl Baum, Sarah Stacey, Jason Forsyth, Michael Stewart,  Evelien Schilder, Tanner Upthegrove, Dane Webster, Joseph Bruzek, LiYun ""Lena"" Ye"	Workshop	0	1	0	"Workshop, Event, Engineering-oriented projects, traditional arts and crafts"	"Area makers ages 13 to 18 are invited to share what they make with the world at Virginia TechÕs first Make-to-Learn Workshop. The free event will be held on Saturday, April 6, from 1-5p.m. in STUDIOne. Makers create everything from engineering-oriented projects to traditional arts and crafts. Participants will complete a project, but will also learn how to identify, document, and explain their process. After completing a project, participants will have the opportunity to submit their creations to the Make-to-Learn contest at Instructables.com."	6-Apr-1324	MAKEr Camp	MAKEr Camp	Idea	"Dane Webster, Ico Bukvic, Ben Knapp, Sam Blanchard, Jason Forsyth, Blake Sawyer, Taylor O'Connor, Brennon Bortz, Liesl Baum, Teri Finn, "	Camp	136	1	0	"DIY, robotics, engineering, and music, camp"	"What do design, DIY, robotics, engineering, and music all have in common? They all combine to create the successful ingredients for ICATÕs first ever MAKEr camp! On July 30, 2012, ICAT studio heads, researchers, and graduate students welcomed nearly thirty middle and high school-aged students to a week long camp designed to harness studentsÕ creativity and encourage them to act on their curiosity. Campers experimented with sensors, circuitry, robotics, rapid prototyping, and the Pd-L2Ork K12 software as they used the design process to create custom musical instruments that responded to motion, sound, and touch sensors. Click here to see photos from the camp, and continue to check back for information about future events hosted by ICAT team members."	30-Jul-1225	Mind Body Interactive	Mind Body Interactive	Impact	Students (K-12)	Online learning module (IDDL) for K-12 education	0	0	0	"Arts, technology, engineering, and health, Taiji martial arts, fitness, balance, stress, physical exertion, mindfulness, meditation"	"MBI is an ongoing research exploring the boundaries between arts, technology, engineering, and health. Focusing on the practice of Taiji martial arts to promote physical fitness, balance, and lowering stress, the current prototype in many ways resembles ubiquitous exercise Wii Fit games, while also providing a series of unique angles including a comprehensive system for an integrative study of connections between human emotion, stress, physical exertion, mindfulness, meditation, and arts. Students engaging in this project will have an opportunity to learn about latest techniques necessary to foster the said integrative approach to research as well as develop entirely new tools that further enhance the existing prototype. Currently, the project has a pending NIH proposal."	None Listed26	Museum's Second Saturday Science program showcased exhibitions from ICAT	Second Saturday Science	Idea	"Teri Finn, Liesl Baum, Phyllis Leary Newbill"	Exhibition	0	0	0	"Interactive exhibition, creative technologies, the arts, education, Jamestown"	"The Institute of Creativity, Arts, and Technology took some of its projects on the road, bringing a group of interactive exhibitions that merged creative technologies with the arts and education to the Science Museum of Western Virginia for its ÒSecond Saturday ScienceÓ program. Children of all ages had the opportunity to virtually visit a Native American village near Jamestown, Va., during the time of early English settlement; see their dance moves transformed into digital art; and experiment with robots that respond to light and touch, among other activities. The event was the result of a budding partnership between the institute and the Science Museum of Western Virginia."	6-Apr-1227	pd-L2OrK	pd-L2Ork	Impact	"Ico Bukvic, DISIS"	Software (Linux Laptop Orchestra)	0	1	0	"Ineteractive, Programming, compositions, ensemble"	"The development and improvement of the pd-l2ork visual real-time programming environment for interactive multimedia with specific focus on low-latency environments as well as its supporting K12 education module that reshapes the said programming environment to make it accessible to students in primary, middle, and high school grade levels. Pd-L2Ork, based on Pure-Data software originally developed by Miller Puckette and open-source community, prides itself in providing a user-friendly, feature-rich, and most importantly stable environment. Originally developed for exclusive use in Virginia Tech's Linux Laptop Orchestra, the project has since expanded to also interact with K12 education. Contributors to this project will have an opportunity to learn about unique architectural choices that make pd-l2ork a robust and powerful tool. They will also learn how to concurrently rely on a combination of diverse tools and toolkits, as well as develop their own objects. Students will also have an opportunity to write compositions for the ensemble. Currently, the project has a pending NEA proposal."	"May, 2009"28	Sound Spatialization	Sound Spatialization	Impact	DISIS faculty and students	not listed	0	0	0	"Sound spatialization, artistic performances and installations, research of novel scientific concepts"	"DISIS faculty and students continually engage in various creative projects involving sound spatialization, including artistic performances and installations, as well as the research of novel scientific concepts. Most recently, ""Kite Lanterns,"" an installation showcased at Farmers Market this fall engaged over dozen students from concept to realization. Students engaging in these projects will learn the importance of sound, sonification, and spatialization and its use in both applied and abstract contexts. Some projects are paid opportunities while others may require an independent study."	None Listed29	Trauma Room Simulation	Trauma Room	Image	"Yong Cao, Dane Webster, Carilion Hospital, Students"	3D Simulation	0	1	0	"Simulation, medical training"	We create a realistic medical simulation for training using user generated training protocols. The system has been evaluated with senior trauma room interns at Carilion hospital.	None Listed30	Virginia Tech graduate students lead hands-on workshop for visiting 5th graders through	Grad Workshop	Idea	"Greg Mitchell, Emily Fielder, Kendall Woodard, Evelien Scheilder, Gregory Wilson, Liesl Baum, Phyllis Leary Newbill, Teri Finn"	"Graduate Students, local 5th graders"	0	0	0	"Arts, Sciences, Humanities, Creative Technologies, workshop, visualization"	"Students of the IDEAStudio special study course, ÒBridging the Arts, Sciences, and Humanities through Creative Technologies,Ó collaborated to deliver three one-hour workshops for elementary students during the spring 2012 semester. Participants in the course used the workshops to test progressive iterations of their Change Over Time project, which encourages students to visualize science concepts and create artistic representations of those concepts using a single sheet of paper."	Spring 201231	Virtual Jamestown: The Paspahegh Settlement	Paspahegh	Image	"Dane Webster, Crandall Shifflett, Yong Cao, Rhyannon Berkowitz, Pete Lustig, Steve Sizemore"	Virtual Re-creation	2	2	1	3D virtual re-creation	"The virtual Paspahegh project is a 3D virtual re-creation of a Native American village near Jamestown that was active during the early contact period. The layout and artifacts of the village are entirely based on archaeological data, illustrations, and journals from the period. The team of artists worked closely to insure accuracy of data and have included only those details that are found to be authentic to both the time period and the physical location. Users can navigate through the village and explore as if they were colonists or Native Americans to get a feel for what life was like in the time of early English settlement. Lesson Materials: Discovering the New World - This lesson has been developed to supplement other areas of the Virginia Studies Standards of Learning and, more specifically, the study of the Jamestown settlement. As students are led through an interactive, virtual Paspahegh Indian village, they are asked to consider ways these Native Americans can help lengthen the survival of the English settlers. The lesson involves exploration of the village, understanding how the natives make use of natural resources, and the role Captain John Smith played in the exploration of the New World. Students engage in activities using a variety of digital technology tools such as virtual simulation, Blogging, historical videos, graphing, and spreadsheets. Students demonstrate their ability to make careful observations, analyze the information, and communicate ideas with other students. Constructing a Virtual Paspahegh Village -This lesson has been developed to supplement other areas of the Virginia Studies Standards of Learning and, more specifically, the study of the Jamestown settlement. As students are led through an interactive, virtual Paspahegh Indian village, they are asked to consider ways these Native Americans can help lengthen the survival of the English settlers. The lesson involves exploration of the village, understanding how the natives make use of natural resources, and the role Captain John Smith played in the exploration of the New World. Students engage in activities using a variety of digital technology tools such as virtual simulation, Blogging, historical videos, graphing, and spreadsheets. Students demonstrate their ability to make careful observations, analyze the information, and communicate ideas with other students. Constructing a Virtual Paspahegh Village Lesson Plan (PDF)"	None Listed32	Bat Biodiversity Digitization Projet	Bat Digitization	Image	"Dane Webster, Rolf Mueller, Anupam Gupta, Reza Tassoji"	Rendered 3D Models	1	1	1	"digitization, 3D rendering"	"Part of an ongoing effort to partner with the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History and create a large-scale digital repository of biological specimens,  these visualizations serve as both an education and outreach component of this research in addition to providing model manipulation tools for analyzing biological form and function relevant to engineering science."""	Fall 2012 - Present33	Bat Sonar and Bio-Inspired Engineering	BioSonar	Image	"Dane Webster, Rolf Mueller, Anupam Gupta, Reza Tassoji"	3D Animation	0	1	1	"sound analysis, engineering"	"Using character animation tools traditionally used for Hollywood movies and video games, Professor Dane Webster and his students take ct-scan models form bats and ""rig"" them with animation controls for deforming the bat nose model. This animation file is then hadned off to Anupam Gupta (PHD in Mechanical Engineering), and he animates the nose into desired poses that then can be exported for sound analysis of beam pattern emitted from the bat's nose."	Fall 2012 - Present34	Visionarium	Visionarium	Image	"Nicholas Polys, Peter Sforza"	Immersive Virtual Environments	0	1	1	"virtual reality, 3d models"	"Built in June 2010, the VisBox VisCube(TM) is the replacement to the old CAVE. Like the CAVE before it, the VisCube has three rear-projected ten foot square walls and a top-projected floor with a cutout hiding a MOOG motion platform. The VisCube features numerous hardware and software upgrades to increase the fidelity of the visualization (more pixels (1920_1920 per wall!), more brightness, more contrast) as well as the ease of use for the researcher (wireless tracking)."	Fall 2012 - Present35	Odd Fellows Hall	Odd Fellows Hall	Image	Thomas Tucker	Virtual Re-creation	0	1	0	"3D virtual re-creation, history, laser scanning, serious game"	"Virtual re-creation of the historic Odd Fellows Halls in Blacksburg, VA. The simulation functions as a ""serious game"", where players learn about the importance of the building to the African-American community."	Spring 201336	Tech or Treat	Tech or Treat	Image	"Chao Peng, Reza Tassoji, Teri Finn"	"Community outreach, education, technology demonstration"	0	1	1	"gaming, education"	"This hauntingly memorable event, for children 5 to 12 years old, featured Halloween fun-themed technologies developed by students and faculty at the university in a family-friendly environment. Some highlights of the event include interactive digital jack-oÕ-lanterns, eerie arms reaching out, a bubbling cauldron, ghostly images in dry ice, and projected rats and snakes. Poetry, art, Halloween gingerbread house displays, and toy activities will also engaged childrenÕs imagination and curiosity."	Fall 201237	National Incident Man	National Incident Man	Image	"Dane Webster, Madhav Martha, Henning Mortveit, Dawen Xie, NDSSL"	Data Visualization	0	1	1	"data visualization, epidemics, emergency planning"	The Comprehensive National Incident Management System provides those involved in disaster management in the United States military with essential detailed operational information about the populations being affected by a possible crisis. Associate Professor Dane Webster worked with a team of researchers from Network Dynamics and Simulation Science Laboratory (NDSSL) to build an interactive tool using Processing for viewing the simulation data. Various attributes for a given population can be selected from the menu and dynamically visualized over time.	201238	Hokie Fever	Hokie Fever	Image	"Dane Webster, Bryan Lewis, Kristy Collins, Stephen Eubanks, NDSSL"	Data Visualization	0	1	0	"data visualization, epidemics, promotional event"	"During the Fall 2011 open house, Stephen Eubank and his team in the Network Dynamics and Simulation Science Laboratory (NDSSL) at the Virginia Bioinformatics Institute at Virginia Tech invited attendees to the Blacksburg campus to join a fandemic by picking up a bracelet with a unique barcode at designated locations across campus. Each participantÕs barcode was scanned into the system.Ê The bracelet wearers were encouraged to spread /""Hokie Fever/"" throughout the event and to scan in wherever they encounter a scanning station. The data was be fed into the instituteÕs new situation awareness room where it was documented and tracked the developing network of infected Hokies across campus.ÊAfter the simulation, the data was handed off to Dane Webster for the creation of a visualization of the /""Hokie Fever/"" outbreak."	Fall 201139	Smart Infrastructure Laboratory - Lidar Scanning	SEB - Lidar Scanning	Image	"Thomas Tucker, Pablo Tarazaga, Mary Kasarda"	Virtual Re-creation	0	1	0	"3D virtual re-creation,laser scanning, simulation"	"This work headed by Dr. Tucker, associate professor in the School of Visual Arts at Virginia Tech, is concerned with the development of a very accurate (± 0.001m) real 3D model of the Signature Engineering Building. A LiDar system capable of taking 1,000,000 frames every 10 minutes is used to create a 3D virtual environment where sensor data ca be visualized. This will also allow all sensors to be accounted for in the building, and the location and orientation of each sensor will be very accurately measured (a very difficult task in such a large environment).  Some example videos of this work are shown below."	Fall 201340	OPERAcraft	OPERAcraft	Impact	"Ariana Wyatt, Tracy Cowden, Kelly Parkes, Katie Dredger, Ico Bukvic "	"Opera, virtual environment"	0	1		"Opera, virtual environment, education, Minecraft"	"OPERAcraft's goal is to provide an opportunity for K-12 students to create and perform a fully produced virtual opera. Starting with music borrowed from Mozart operas and a specific number of characters, the project inspires K-12 students to create a story and then the libretto; create the virtual set through a custom version of ubiquitous Minecraft video game/ sandbox; create avatars for each character; and control said avatars within the confines of the virtual world, including body gestures, lip-syncing with real singing soloists, as well as multiple real-time camera feeds akin to that of a live video production. The project culminates in the fall 2013 when the opera is performed in the newfound ICAT Cube space at the Center for the Arts. The interactive set will be projected on a scrim while Virginia Tech music majors sing the finalized score and the K-12 students control the character avatars."	Fall 2012-1341	2020 HipHop Curriculum	2020 HipHop Curriculum	Ideas	Jocelyn Wilson	archive	0	0		"Hip Hop, education, archive"	"The vision of the HipHop2020 Educational Research Lab and Archive is to organize, develop, and digitally preserve the history and culture of the hip-hop aesthetic and its relationship to education and technology. Originally established in 2006 as the HipHop 2020 Curriculum Project, the project is to enhance the legacy of the material culture of hip-hop, particularly hip-hop produced in the American South. With a focus on quality, significance, and authenticity, one of the most elaborate historical collections of material such as photographs, autographs, manuscripts, audio, and video is being built. From a research perspective, HipHop 2020 is dedicated to creating and supporting the development of new knowledge and research situated in the production, art, activities, scholarship, materials, institutions, and organizations who support hip-hop based education (HHBE). Its teaching and learning arm is dedicated to designing pedagogy and pedagogical products that advance the emerging field of HHBE as it intersects with technology and other disciplines - both in the humanities and STEM-related fields. "	2012-201342	Interactive Audio-Visual Lantern Field	Lantern Field	Impact	"Aki Ishida, Ico Bukvic, Brennon Bortz, Benjamin Knapp, students of architecture and engineering"	Audio-visual installation	0	1		"sound spatialization, Interactive Light, Communal Interaction, Installation, Art"	"Lantern Field is a digitally interactive audio-visual installation consisting of folded mulberry paper illuminated with LED lights and daylight to create a multi-sensory space that responds to people's presence and behavior. The work was installed at the Smithsonian’s Freer Gallery of Art in Washington, DC during the National Cherry Blossom Festival in April 2013."	Spring 201343	Canine 3D Visualization Tools	Canine Visualization	Image	"Thomas Tucker, Bess J. Pierce, Jeryl C. Jones, Matthew Swarts"	"Motion Capture, 3D Visualization"	0	0		"Motion Capture, 3D Visualization, Kinect, social interaction, puppies"	"The puppy project uses safe, noninvasive motion capture and 3-D visualization tools to study canine puppy socialization behaviors in a newly developed portable motion capture unit. While individual interactions have been widely described in the veterinary literature, few recorded observations of group dynamics are available. Plans for this project involve animating the data gained over time to examine recorded individual interactions and group dynamics in a social setting. Using an array of synchronized structured light sensors to capture a collection of moving objects is a feasible technique for recording and allowing the quantification of puppy social interactions. This data can be used in future studies with the use of machine learning algorithms to computationally identify social behaviors. "	2012-201344	Living Lab for Asynchronous and Synchronous Investigation of Virtual and Real Environments	Mirror Worlds	Implement	"Benjamin Knapp, Yong Cao, Ico Bukvic, Nicholas Polys, James Ivory, Doug Bowman, Dane Webster, Thomas Tucker, Christina Lidwin, Abby Garrett, Matt Bock"	real and virtual environments	0	0		"public spaces, virtual environments, sensors, tracking, crowd dynamics"	"The Mirror Worlds project is a two-year NSF-funded project which will transform the Center for the Arts building into an aware space, capable of sensing its environment and adapting to its ever-changing function. This will co-exist with the building’s virtual counterpart.  Individuals populating such a space are not merely occupants. They are also participants whose behavior can be studied, shaped, simulated, and ultimately studied to optimize space’s form and function. Their presence is abstractly mirrored in the virtual world in a way that honors their privacy, yet enables virtual participants to be aware of them. Similarly, virtual participants’ presence is mirrored throughout the physical space using multimedia cues (an abstract floor projection, or a sound reflecting their footsteps), allowing participants in the real world to experience virtual world dynamics."	Fall 2013-201545	A KINETIC SCULPTURE AND FUNCTIONAL PARALLEL CLUSTER OF RASPBERRY PI COMPUTERS 	Kinectic Rasberry PI	Implement	"Sam Blanchard, Kirk Cameron, Ali Butt"	kinetic sculpture	0	0		"computing, Rasberry PI, sculpture"	"This project will result in a larger-than- life kinetic sculpture that can be showcased in one of various locations on campus and potentially nationwide to demonstrate how visual art, design, engineering, and computer science can work in harmony to educate audiences about the promise of ubiquitous computing. As part of the visual presentation, the Raspberry Pi system will compute advanced parallel computations (e.g. Tsunami wave simulation) enabled through the synchronized use of 256 Raspberry Pi systems. The sculpture will also integrate compact servomechanisms (a.k.a. servos) that react to computation in real time and control the physical position (e.g. angle) of the Raspberry Pi devices. "	Fall 2013																 						